---
author: admin
date: '2005-06-22 10:24:00'
layout: post
slug: odeo-launches
status: publish
title: ODEO Launches!
wordpress_id: '63'
categories:
- Software
---

[![ODEO](http://www.odeo.com/img/logo-odeo-whoopass.gif)](http://www.odeo.com "Listen, Sync, Create")
[Rabble](http://www.blogger.com/profile/111541) is reporting in his blog
that [ODEO has
launched](http://anarchogeek.com/articles/2005/06/21/odeo-launches)!
I've been eagerly anticipating ODEO since I first heard about them in
the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, my invite hasn't arrived yet
so I can't say much more about them, but thankfully Phillip Torrone has
posted an excellent
[review](http://www.makezine.com/blog/archive/2005/06/odeo_minireview.html)
with screenshots on the [MAKE: Blog](http://www.makezine.com/blog/). Go
check it out. **Update 2005-6-24:** Either the folks at Odeo saw my blog
post, were reading my mind or finally got to me in the list of folks who
registered awhile ago because I got my invite yesterday! After playing
around with Odeo for a day-and-a-half now I have to say that the website
experience is fantastic ([go Rails!](http://www.rubyonrails.com)) and
the ODEO Syncr for the Mac works well -- though I'm slightly annoyed
since my iTunes consolidates my library automatically and ODEO leaves
copies in \~/Library/Application Support/Odeo/Downloads. Unfortunately
(or fortunately for you), ODEO's Podcast Creation tool doesn't seem to
be up yet. I haven't seriously investigated any Podcast creation tools
just yet, though the tool that [Adam Curry](http://www.curry.com) uses
for the [DSC](http://www.dailysourcecode.com) sounds interesting
(CastBlaster I think it's called). Anyway, getting back to ODEO, I think
it's a great tool and serves a definite need -- though we'll have to see
what happens once iTunes 4.9 comes out with its PodCasting support.
