---
author: admin
date: '2005-08-07 17:22:00'
layout: post
slug: oscon-observations
status: publish
title: OSCON Observations
wordpress_id: '38'
categories:
- Conferences
- OSCON
- Programming
---

Some observations from
[OSCON](http://conferences.oreillynet.com/os2005/). The short form is
that [Ruby,](http://www.ruby-lang.org)[Ruby on
Rails](http://www.rubyonrails.org) and
[Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/) were the biggest things around at
this year's OSCON, closely followed by Ajax. My more detailed
observations are continued below (except for Ubuntu, since I can't
really add anything -- I use it, I like it, but if another Linux
distribution comes along that I like better I'll easily switch).While
Java and Perl still occupy a significant mind-share, it appears that
share is receding. Perhaps we are at an inflection point, where the
(open source) development community is moving towards Ruby (and Python).
To an Java/Perl programmers reading this, I suggest you learn one or
both of these languages. Due to work, I had to learn Python first and
Ruby in my spare time -- the Pythonistas will probably lynch me, but if
I had a choice I would've skipped Python in favor of Ruby. It seems that
there is a bit of (albeit friendly) competition between the Rubyists and
Pythonistas -- though instead of copying killer apps (\*cough\*
[Subway](http://redhanded.hobix.com/cult/hissHissChooChoo.html)
\*cough\*) the two groups should work together to help those poor souls
stuck in Java, C/C++ and Perl move into the 21st century (or back to the
middle of the 20th century, since Lisp had all of these goodies first --
I couldn't resist ;-)). Developing web-apps is hugely popular as
evidenced by all of the love going [Ruby on
Rails'](http://www.rubyonrails.org) way as well as the interest
surrounding Ajax. [Alex Russell](http://alex.dojotoolkit.org/), of [Dojo
Toolkit fame](http://www.dojotoolkit.org), gave a couple of different
tutorials/sessions on Ajax/JavaScript and both were quite full (the
tutorial was sold out). Now Alex is a great speaker and seems like a
nice guy, but I don't think all those people were there just for him --
the recent coining of the XMLHTTP "technology" Ajax (which has been
around in IE for quite a while) seems to have brought it to the
forefront (that and the folks using our web-apps are more savvy today
and won't put up with full page refreshes and stupid web UIs which make
them jump through hoops). I'm just getting up to speed on this stuff
myself since the majority of programming work has been with
"traditional" client-apps. Since most open source developers have the
luxury of choosing their programming language when starting a project,
they will usually choose the one they are most productive in. Companies
need to anticipate this change so they can hire the best developers.
Developers who do not take the initiative may find themselves in danger
of losing their jobs, as unlike the transitions from FORTRAN to C or C++
to Java, many businesses have realizes they can find just as well
educated employees in countries with much lower costs of labor.
[Google](http://www.google.com) still gets quite a bit of "love" from
the open source community. I'm a bit surprised at this -- not to say
that Google is bad (or "evil") in any way -- just that Google is
perceived as the internet leader. What about Yahoo!? Yes, everyone here
still loves Flickr as well (and it is somewhat deserved), but I think
the euphoria around Google has created an RDF
([Apple](http://www.apple.com) folks will know what I mean). The [Yahoo!
Developer](http://developer.yahoo.net) network has released a bunch of
new APIs/tools within the last couple of weeks which are amazing.
Because of this, I think that either Google's stock is currently
overvalued or Yahoo! is undervalued -- it is probably the former, but
since uncovered shorts are risky (and Google stock is still so
volatile), I'd recommend buying Yahoo! instead. **Disclaimer, I don't
own any Yahoo! or Google stock, *yet*.**
