---
author: admin
date: '2005-08-04 15:31:00'
layout: post
slug: oscon-a-starry-afternoon-a-sinking-symphony-and-the-polo-champ-who-gave-it-all-up-for-no-reason-whatsoever
status: publish
title: OSCON A Starry Afternoon, a Sinking Symphony, and the Polo Champ Who Gave It
  All Up for No Reason Whatsoever
wordpress_id: '44'
categories:
- Conferences
- OSCON
- Programming
- Ruby
---

Why the lucky stiff dazzled the audience with his performance art piece
entitled, [A Starry Afternoon, a Sinking Symphony, and the Polo Champ
Who Gave It All Up for No Reason
Whatsoever](http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2005/view/e_sess/6948).
My mind was blown and my gut busted. O'Reilly should hold a Monday Night
Extravaganza at next year's OSCON and give the entire night to Why (and
his band, The Thirsty Cups). My (very limited) notes are below. This was
an incredible experience including about four different movies (two with
shadow puppets -- yay!) and two live performances by Why and the Thirsty
Cups. First Why extolled the virtues of the future -- such as the
octagonal paper they were using (as seen on Battlestar Gallactica) --
this octagonal paper has literally changed their lifes (when asked where
one could purchase such fancy paper, Why simply replied, "The future").
After a storytelling session (movie with shadow puppets) and possibly a
musical performance (sorry, so much happened my mind is a blur -- I was
too busy trying to capture it all on film to take accurate notes), Why
noted the dearth of programming resources for children -- claiming that
the only books he could find at Amazon dated from the mid-80's (over 20
years ago); unless he was doing the wrong search -- when asked what
"kids" are called now-a-days an audience member replied "gangsters" (or
was that "gangstas", it was difficult to tell) -- a search for "gangster
programming" turned up a single
[book](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0387001638/qid=1123213082/sr=8-1/ref=sr_8_xs_ap_i1_xgl14/104-8580297-7385514?v=glance&s=books&n=507846)
on Amazon. After that it all become a blur with more movies and another
musical performance. Snapshots from the (pre)-show at FOSCON are here:
http://www.onestepback.org/articles/depinj/index.html Once I get access
to a proper USB cable, I'll post my photos to Flickr as well. Also, Why
said that he would post torrents of the movies at his site:
http://redhanded.hobix.com/ What I want to know is when we can purchase
Why and the Thirsty Cups on iTunes ...
