---
author: admin
date: '2005-05-01 21:29:00'
layout: post
slug: upgraded-to-tiger
status: publish
title: Upgraded to Tiger
wordpress_id: '70'
categories:
- Mac
- Software
---

[![Apple - Mac OS X
Tiger](http://images.apple.com/macosx/images/indextitle20050412.jpg)](http://www.apple.com/macosx/ "Apple - Mac OS X")
On Friday, FedEx delivered my copy of [Mac OS X
Tiger](http://www.apple.com/macosx/) (the family pack since I have a few
computers to upgrade). I spent most of Saturday backing up all of our
photos, music and data to DVDs. It ended up being a total 5 DVD-Rs and 1
CD-R -- it's amazing the amount of stuff you accumulate in only 18
months! On Sunday morning I installed Tiger then restored our files. So
far, no issues to report of. The 15" Powerbook neither feels slower or
faster than with Panther installed.
[Spotlight](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/spotlight/) is quite
nice, though now I'm waiting for the next revision (hopefully, as [this
guy says](http://slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=146369&cid=12266911),
we'll see GPS enabled Powerbooks and automatic tagging of our files with
location-aware meta-data).
[Dashboard](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/dashboard/) is neat,
though it seems to me to be mostly a gimic. Though I definitely
appreciate the built-in dictionary/thesaurus. I've only briefly played
with [Automator](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/automator/), but
it appears to be a powerful tool for scripting actions (and much easier
to use than AppleScript). Unfortunately, I hate the look of the new
version of [Mail](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/mail/). And it
appears a bit slower for some reason -- I'm not entirely sure why,
perhaps it's just my perception because I hate the UI so much. But
[Quicktime 7](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/quicktime/) is sweet,
the new H.264 codec is amazing -- the quality, the smart bandwidth
usage, what else can I say other than it's great! I haven't used the new
features of [iChat](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/ichat/) yet
(though one reason is that I don't have a G5 to host video conferencing
even though I do have an iSight). In particular, I was looking forward
to some of the new developer tools like
[CoreData](http://developer.apple.com/macosx/coredata.html),
[CoreImage](http://developer.apple.com/macosx/coreimage.html) and
[CoreVideo](http://developer.apple.com/documentation/GraphicsImaging/Conceptual/CoreVideo/index.html?http://developer.apple.com/documentation/GraphicsImaging/Conceptual/CoreVideo/CVProg_Intro/chapter_1_section_1.html).
Unfortunately, due to work and home improvement tasks, I've not yet had
a chance to check them out. Overall, I think Tiger is an excellent OS
upgrade and well worth the money. Apple is definitely leading the way
here -- I wish KDE/GNOME would 'borrow' some of the ideas from
[Apple](http://www.apple.com) instead of waiting for them to by
synthesized through [Microsoft](http://www.microsoft.com) first.
