---
author: admin
date: '2006-04-01 03:07:00'
layout: post
slug: the-use-of-superconducting-wire-in-ethernet-networks
status: publish
title: The Use of Superconducting Wire in Ethernet Networks
wordpress_id: '24'
categories:
- Telecom
---

I'm curious why I can't find anyone experimenting with the use of
[superconductors](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superconductivity) ([high
temperature
superconducting](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-temperature_superconductor)
(HTS) wire, specifically) in networking applications. I realize that
fiber is really cheap now and HTS wiring is not. But it would be nice to
see the transmission distances, for example, for an HTS version of Cat 6
with RJ-45 style connectors. I find it annoying that you have to
clean/polish the ends of fiber and dealing with two connectors is a
pain. Though I think the LC duplex connectors are an improvement over
the SC/FC/ST connectors. Plus I've seen what happens when you bend
fibers too far and have to replace or splice it. Then again, I'm not
that familiar with HTS wire so it may have some of the same issues
(though surely it can't be as brittle as glass). Since fiber supports
DWDM, I don't think HTS cable will take off, but it would still be
interesting to see the comparison. This would be core network/long haul
usage ... in the long run, I think that wireless will win out in the
last mile since it doesn't require the expense of burying fiber. If
anyone knows more about HTS wire being used in networking applications
please send me an email or leave a comment here. Thanks.
