---
author: admin
date: '2006-10-30 21:19:18'
layout: post
slug: goodbye-cisco
status: publish
title: Goodbye Cisco
wordpress_id: '3'
categories:
- Telecom
---

My previous employer, [Cisco Systems](http://www.cisco.com), has decided
to restructure my business unit and as a result my choices were to
either move or leave and since my family is quite happy in Northern
Virginia, I decided to find employment elsewhere. The restructuring was
necessary for Cisco, and personally I thought they should've taken
action much sooner than they did. The company made a series of bad
business decisions in the optical business, not the least of which was
paying $6.9 billion for the start-up at which I worked. The world is
moving to ethernet and IP and the focus should've been on leveraging the
team's existing experience in telecom (and SONET/SDH, in particular) to
move to an IP-based platform. I was eager to see Cisco's shift its image
to a consumer-focused company--even though I think the new logo looks
considerably worse than the old one. Even though I'm planning to get rid
of my cable service in favor of FiOS TV, it would've been nice to see
the Cisco enhancements to the SciAtl set-top boxes. And as a Cisco
share-holder, the fact that consumer companies seem to have higher
multiples has given the stock a nice little rise since early August.
I'll continue to keep my eye on Cisco and now that I'm no longer an
employee I can blog about them much more freely.
