---
author: admin
date: '2007-07-08 22:14:49'
layout: post
slug: on-desire
status: publish
title: On Desire
wordpress_id: '119'
categories:
- Entertainment
---

[![Paul
Barnett](http://seanmountcastle.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/07/pbarnett.thumbnail.png)](http://seanmountcastle.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/07/pbarnett.png "Paul Barnett")

Last week, I was fortunate enough to be one of the few folks who
attended the [Northern
VA](http://games.groups.yahoo.com/group/igda_dc_chapter/)
[IGDA](http://www.idga.org/cgi-bin/templates/single.html?topic=329)
meeting where [Paul
Barnett](http://www.warhammeronline.com/english/behindTheScenes/meetTheTeam/paulBarnett.php)
spoke to us about *desire*. Specifically what you can and cannot control
to influence your customers into buying your product (in his case a
subscription to a MMORPG). That is, to make them *desire* your product.
To warm up he spoke about the utility of mind maps and suggested reading
Tony Buzan's book on Mind Maps. While speaking about mind maps, he
hinted at the mind map he drew on the board in preparation for his talk.
As background, for those who may not know what [Warhammer: Age of
Reckoning](http://www.warhammeronline.com/) (WAR) is, Paul explained
that it is **not** a computer game. As Paul sees it, computer games are
like "washing powder" (laundry detergent) in that it is a product which
is made, shipped and forgotten about. Next week there is always a better
version of washing powder on the market (new, improved, etc), to the
point where it seems like just weeks ago we were essentially washing our
clothes in dirt. WAR, in contrast, is a hobby game. As a hobby game it
requires skill, commitment and imagination. Hobbies are
self-obsessed/self-indulgent; a very personal endeavor. And WAR is not
just a game that is shipped and forgotten. Since it is a massively
multiplayer online game, the developers must constantly work to improve
the game while the customer service team resolves issues and others work
to lead in-game special events. EA Mythic is providing an experience
with WAR (as is Blizzard with World of Warcraft, aka WoW). Getting back
to the topic of the evening, Paul spoke of the three thwarts to your
product:

1.  **Acts of God**. These are causes that you have no control over, so
    you shouldn't try to overcome them. Examples included loss of
    internet, loss of life, bankruptcy, etc.
2.  **Your own fault**. These are causes that you have total control
    over which you can mitigate with planning, investment and training.
    Examples included unstable code/servers, bad download experience,
    bad customer service, bad install experience, etc.
3.  **Not any good**. These are causes that you have control over which
    are extremely difficult to mitigate. You cannot just plan to have a
    good game or invest in a good game. This is extremely subjective,
    what one person thinks is great someone else may believe to be total
    crap. Examples included balancing the game, making it engaging,
    building a sense of community, etc.

[![board.jpg](http://seanmountcastle.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/07/board.thumbnail.jpg)](http://seanmountcastle.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/07/board.jpg "board.jpg")

Once you've built-up desire for your product you have to maintain it.
Paul stated that desire is eroded at audit points. Audit points are
times when the customer takes stock of their experience and consciously
chooses to continue paying you money or not. He compared audit points to
the form of interrogation where-by a person's head is held under water
for a period of time and then pulled out -- those points when the person
comes up gasping for air are audit points. You have to keep people away
from audit points. Each of the thwarts mentioned above cause audit
points. Thus when you balance (or nerf) the game, you've just changed
the user's experience and thus inserted an audit point. In addition,
when you release an expansion pack or a patch, it causes an audit point
as the user must choose whether or not to go out and purchase the
expansion pack which allows them access to new locations/adventures
taking them out of their comfort zone within the game. That's all well
and good, but how do you actually build desire for your product in the
first place? Paul believes that you must plan and invest in several
areas prior to the launch of your product. You should have transparent
communication from the very beginning (see [Paul's video
blog](http://www.warhammeronline.com/english/behindTheScenes/vidPhoneDiaries/index.php)
along with [developer
interviews/podcasts](http://www.warhammeronline.com/english/behindTheScenes/developmentDiaries/index.php)
and other behind the scenes material). You also need to build a sense of
community so that your customers and prospective customers feel part of
a greater whole. In this regard, EA Mythic has created [kits for fan
sites](http://www.warhammeronline.com/english/community/fansiteKit/),
[forums](http://www.warhammeronline.com/english/community/forumsFansites/)
on their website, special [promotional
events](http://www.warhammeronline.com/english/community/eventsCalendar/)
and materials, etc. Another way to build desire is to ensure that your
product provides a sense of progression. This is very similar to the
notions espoused by [Kathy
Sierra](http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/) around
helping your users kick ass. At the end of his talk, Paul mentioned the
'innovator's dilemma', specifically evolution vs. revolution. He
estimated that new products can only support 2-3 innovations per
release, any more would simply overwhelm the market. For a product like
his, he gave examples like a unique HUD, unique control scheme,
completely different questing system, etc. In a related vein, he spoke
about 'crossing the chasm', loosely related to Geoffrey Moore's book
which discusses bridging the gap between the early adopters and the
early majority (the pragmatists). Paul's example was that of setting for
the game, fantsy vs. science fiction. His argument was that people can
relate to better to a fantasy world as everyone knows about cutting
enemies down with swords or clubbing them but shooting blaster cannons
or instaneous space travel, which don't exist in real life, take more of
a leap. Personally, I'm not sure that's the reason why most Sci-Fi MMOs
are having a difficult time but he's certainly entitled to his opinion.
Overall, Paul's talk was quite enjoyable (in no small part to his
bitingly sarcastic British humor) and he has definitely made some
interesting observations, though it would seem that many are widely
known outside of the "game development" community. I look forward to
hearing more from Paul and the team at EA Mythic and will be keeping an
eye on the development of WAR.
